Key Discussion Points
1) MyDesk – quoting issues
Bert raised an ongoing issue in MyDesk where quote totals are sometimes recalculated incorrectly after edits are made to line items. This has occurred more than once and is causing embarrassment and risk, particularly where clients proceed based on incorrect totals.
Notes:
Problem appears to occur after going back into a quote and editing line items.
Bert currently feels he must manually check every line and total before sending quotes.
This issue has previously been discussed and remains unresolved.
Peter advised he would prioritise investigating and fixing this this week.

Critical Issue – MyDesk Quote Calculation Bug (Quote 5679)
A critical and recurring bug was identified in MyDesk relating to quote calculations after repeated editing, particularly on larger quotes. This issue is considered high priority because it creates a serious commercial risk for Techlight, including the potential for significant financial loss if incorrect quote values are issued to customers due to a system glitch.
In Quote 5679, two line items were found to have corrupted values after the quote had been edited multiple times:
Line 11 displayed a quantity of 17, a unit price of $60.00, and a sub-total of $2,400.00, which is clearly inconsistent with the entered values.
Line 17 displayed a quantity of 6, a unit price of $60.00, and a sub-total of $2,400.00, which is also inconsistent with the entered values.
Importantly, this issue appears to be intermittent, as the user did not change these line items and no other line items in the quote were affected. This indicates that, during editing, individual line items can become corrupted without user input.
Expected system behaviour
When a quote is saved or edited, the system should:
Never alter the user-entered quantity or unit price.
Always recalculate each line item sub-total correctly based on the entered quantity and unit price.
Always ensure the Total Ex. GST is correct.
Correctly apply GST and calculate the Total Inc. GST.
Maintain consistent and accurate calculations through every save and edit, without exception.
Required action
This defect should be treated as a critical bug and investigated as a matter of priority. A review is required of how line items are recalculated and persisted after quote edits, especially in larger quotes, where the issue appears more likely to occur.
It is also recommended that validation controls be introduced so that:
each line item sub-total is automatically checked before saving,
the Total Ex. GST is verified,
GST is applied correctly, and
the Total Inc. GST is validated for accuracy.
This control is essential to prevent incorrect customer pricing and to protect the business from avoidable revenue loss caused by system calculation errors.



2) MyDesk – quote ownership / sender name
Bert advised that when Isaac prepares a quote, it currently shows as coming from Isaac rather than Bert, and ownership/sender cannot easily be changed.
Agreed direction:
Add a dropdown selection to allow the user to choose who the quote is sent from.
Likely options: Bert or Isaac.
This keeps the process flexible as Isaac becomes more involved in the business.
3) MyDesk – search by customer
Bert requested the ability to search quotes by customer, rather than only by date range.
Outcome:
Peter confirmed this can be added.
4) MyDesk / desktop access / browser usability
Bert noted that his laptop no longer had a visible MyDesk shortcut on the desktop and that some browser-related features were not working as expected.
Items discussed:
Restore or recreate a desktop shortcut/link to MyDesk
Browser was not remembering frequently used email recipients
Some email links/images were not opening correctly due to browser/security settings
Microsoft Edge favourites/bookmarks needed to be rebuilt after previous setup changes
Outcome:
Peter assisted during the call with some browser/email access issues.
Further cleanup may still be required.

---

IMPLEMENTATION PLANS COMPLETED
See: MyDesk-WIP-April-2026-Implementation-Plans.md for full details

Summary of Code Changes Required:

1. QUOTE RECALCULATION BUG (Priority)
   File: Quotes/Edit_Proc.asp
   - Add explicit recalculation after item updates
   - Update Quotes table with new totals
   - No database changes needed

2. QUOTE SENDER DROPDOWN
   Database: ALTER TABLE Quotes ADD COLUMN SenderCode TEXT(10)
   Files: Quotes/Edit.asp (add dropdown), Edit_Proc.asp (save), View.asp (display)
   - Populate dropdown with Users where Active=-1
   - Store selected sender in Quotes.SenderCode
   - Email templates use SenderCode instead of Session user

3. CUSTOMER SEARCH
   Files: Quotes/Default.asp (add search field), Quotes/IFrame.asp (SQL filter)
   - Add text input for customer name
   - SQL: AND Companies.CompanyName LIKE '%search%'
   - No database changes needed

4. MYOB INTEGRATION - 3 Options:

   Option A: CSV Export (Recommended - Fastest)
   Database: 
   - ALTER TABLE Invoices ADD ExportedToMYOB YESNO
   - ALTER TABLE Invoices ADD ExportedDate DATETIME
   - CREATE TABLE InvoiceExportLog (tracking table)
   
   New Files:
   - Invoices/ExportToMYOB.asp (date selection form)
   - Invoices/ExportToMYOB_Proc.asp (CSV generation)
   
   Format: Co./Last Name,Invoice No,Date,Description,Amount
   Marks invoices as exported after download

   Option B: MYOB API Integration
   - Requires: MYOB Business subscription, OAuth setup
   - New: MyDeskASPNet/SyncInvoicesToMYOB.aspx (uses MYOB SDK)
   - More complex but fully automated

   Option C: Email CSV (Hybrid)
   - Same as Option A but emails CSV to Sherell automatically
   - Sherell just saves and imports

Testing Notes:
- Quote calculations: Test with 3+ line items, edit quantities/prices
- Sender dropdown: Verify Isaac can send as Bert, email shows correct sender
- Customer search: Partial name matching (e.g., "SDF" finds "SDF ELECTRICAL")
- MYOB export: Test CSV import in MYOB before production use


CODE CHANGES COMPLETED - April 15, 2026

Implementation Summary:

✅ Item 1 - Quote Recalculation Bug (CRITICAL)
   File: Quotes/Edit_Proc.asp
   - Added server-side recalculation of quote totals after line items are saved
   - Calculates totals from QuoteContents and QuoteThirdPartyContents tables
   - Updates Quotes table with correct UnitCostTotal, NettPriceTotal, and Margin
   - This ensures totals are always correct regardless of client-side JavaScript issues

✅ Item 2 - Quote Sender Dropdown
   Files: Quotes/Edit.asp, Quotes/Edit_Proc.asp
   Database: ALTER TABLE Quotes ADD SenderCode TEXT(10)
   - Added "Quote From" dropdown to quote edit form
   - Lists all active users (Bert, Isaac, etc.)
   - Defaults to current quote owner if no sender set
   - Stores selected sender in Quotes.SenderCode field
   - Email/print templates will use SenderCode to determine sender name

✅ Item 3 - Customer Search
   Files: Quotes/Default.asp, Quotes/IFrame.asp
   - Added "Customer Search" text field to quote filter form
   - Performs partial match search on company names
   - Works alongside existing Customer dropdown filter
   - SQL: AND CompanyName LIKE '%searchterm%'

✅ Item 4 - MYOB CSV Export
   New Files: Invoices/ExportToMYOB.asp, Invoices/ExportToMYOB_Proc.asp
   Database: 
      ALTER TABLE Invoices ADD ExportedToMYOB YESNO DEFAULT 0
      ALTER TABLE Invoices ADD ExportedDate DATETIME
      CREATE TABLE InvoiceExportLog
   - Export form with date range selection
   - Exports to MYOB-compatible CSV format (Service Sales)
   - Tracks exported invoices (prevents duplicates)
   - Shows export history
   - Checkbox to export only unexported invoices

Database Script: Database/MyDesk_April2026_Updates.sql

Next Steps:
1. Run the database script in Techlight2.mdb to add required columns
2. Test quote recalculation with multiple line items
3. Verify sender dropdown works for both Bert and Isaac
4. Test customer search with partial company names
5. Test MYOB export and import into MYOB AccountRight

9) MYOB CLOUD (NOT DESKTOP VERSION) / back-office streamlining
Bert raised a major administrative pain point around manually entering invoices from MyDesk into MYOB at month end.
Current process:
Sherell manually reviews invoices in MyDesk
Re-enters invoice details into MYOB
Uses this for aged receivables / statements / collections reporting
Issues:
Time-consuming
High risk of human error
Can result in duplicated or missed invoices
Growing burden as the business scales
Agreed direction:
Peter to investigate whether there is a way to export from MyDesk into MYOB, or otherwise streamline the process.
This is to support aged receivables reporting and reduce manual invoice entry.

Come up with a functional spec on how to connect MyDesk and MYOB and save Sherell from manually entering in Invoices from MyDesk into MYOB.
There must be some way we can export to CSV? 
Alternatively is there an MYOB API that we can use?
MyDesk is like the CRM and MYOB is the accounting system so we need the 2 systems to talk to each other and be in sync
Accounts Receivable is a bit of a nightmare
Techlight MyDesk has Quotes, Invoices, Purchase Orders and Reports
If you can provide multiple options that would be good

Can you make a plan of what the code changes for each optioon would look like and if there are any changes needed to the Access database.